psync:  iPod sync tool
======================

psync enables syncing music with an iPod from Linux using a workflow not
enabled by other tools.  It was developed primarily to bridge the disconnect
between the iPod's organization of music as a "library", and the author's
preferred organization of music as nested directories replicated across
multiple computers (with multiple roots per computer).

The core principle behind psync is that each music hierarchy is stored in one
directory that has been initialized for use with psync:

    psync init-music /path/to/music

Once the directory is initialized, any music in a subdirectory can be copied
to the iPod:

    psync copy-to-ipod /mnt/ipod /path/to/music/Pink_Floyd
    psync copy-to-ipod /mnt/ipod /path/to/music/The_Offspring

Similarly, music can be removed from the iPod:

    psync remove-from-ipod /mnt/ipod /path/to/music/The_Offspring/Splinter

Tracking Music
--------------

Music is tracked by a checksum of the file.  Files on the iPod are tagged with
this checksum, while files on the computer have the checksum computed on them
directly.  When transferring music to the iPod, psync constructs a list of
checksums that must be transferred, reads the list of checksums on the iPod,
and transfers the set difference of the former and the latter.

This algorithm works well to enable psync to move music from multiple
different locations to the same iPod.  Where the music is in common between
locations it will only be copied to the iPod once.  For example, the author's
desktop machine holds his entire music collection, while only a subset is
available on his laptop.  Music from either computer may be transferred to the
iPod and will not be doubly-transferred when the iPod syncs with another
computer.

There's a baked in assumption that music will be not be changing in any way by
the time it gets transferred to the iPod.  Re-tagging music, or otherwise
altering the source files will break psync's tracking.

psync provides a built-in command to speed-up the music tracking process:

    psync index-music /path/to/music

This command pre-supposes that the directory to be indexed, or one of its
direct parents has previously been initialized for use with psync.

Transcoding
-----------

Internally, psync uses ffmpeg, mplayer, and neroAacEnc to transcode all source
material into consistent bitrate files for the iPod.  This is done by default
and not configurable at the moment.  The rationale for this is that the
author's music collection is primarily flac files ripped from CD, which must
be transcoded to a format the iPod can support.  AAC provides a good balance
of quality and size.
